Our current solution for the following doesn't work.
See if you cam propose something that will.

The project ~/src/z2js is a compiler of infocom
.z machine v1-v8 to javascript to play in a web browser.
The IF interfactive fiction community recieved it very
very poorly.  They only wanted 100% tested stuff.
Likewise ~/src/zorkie zil/zilf compiler was poorly
recieved.

The community suggested I or other humans should do the
testing. I am more familure with a compiler test suite
and regression testing.

The purpose of this project is create solutions from .z files.
The solution can then be played in j2js with the official .z.
Then the published zil/zilf can be compiled and tested with
the solution.

This project has done some bits and pices of tooling
but nothing useful.  It has wasted days of claude time,
lots of tokens and over $30 of API.

The first atempt was wander around to each room and try
everything.

Next it fed anthropic LLM history info when stuck and asked for
what to do.

Next was trying walkthrus written by humans. The problem is even
when well intentioned to be compleat, they end up being more like
hints.  And some are clearly hint only for the hard parts.

One complication is the random part of dungeons, one had a thief
that would steal something.

We have lots of tools to help twords a solution:
 - .z code it analyze for what each room or object is or needs
 - the room number for each location (cant get lost in a maze)
 - the ability to save interpereter state or play thru from the start
 - available walkthrus

The main problem I see is no collection of information notes like the
way a real player would:
 - map of rooms and connections
 - current location of every movable object
 - list of non reversable steps (trap door shuts above you)

Suggested, collect the useful info, guess across runs? some object locations
may be random so may need a flag for know it for this run.

After that id like a solid plan to make good solution files.  They can't been 100%
word for word.  There have to be sections in solution to handle the random
encounters. We need a plan of what info to collect and how to properly
feed to to logic or a LLM to actually solve games.

It might be helpful to store the solve info so I can browse it (walk around
a virtual copy of the rooms, see the prompts). then leave hints on things to try.

There is currently no record of things tried that did not work.  Maybe something could work later. But currently it wanders around rooms trying the same commands over and over.


