                         TRINITY
                          Part I
 
 
As you'll see, Trinity is not all that difficult a game, although there are a
few tricky parts to it. Thus, you would be wise to save your position from time
to time, in case you make an error along the way. Apple owners should note that
they can get only 3 positions on the save disk, even tho the docs say 4. A
second save disk may therefore come in handy. Also, from time to time in some
places, little quotes will pop up in your screen. These are meant to give a
little flavor to the game; they are not really clues or hints. So if you don't
know French (or Latin, for that matter), don't worry about it. Finally, this
walkthru shows only one way of completing the game, so don't be afraid to
experiment on your own.
 
Ok, here you are in London, on the last day of your $599 package tour,
strolling around the Kensington Gardens. All seems well, but in a short time,
World War III is going to start, and you certainly don't want to be around when
that happens. From the Palace Gate, go NE to The Wabe and the sundial. It looks
just like the one that comes in the game package, so you needn't spend precious
time admiring it.
 
Instead, unscrew the gnomon from the dial and get it (and be prepared for some
really awful gnomon jokes later on). With that in hand, saunter on SE to the
Flower Walk, where you find a soccer ball someone left behind. Pick that up,
then continue North along Lancaster Walk until you reach Lancaster Gate.
 
Here you see an old woman struggling with an umbrella. As you step forward to
help her, you are momentarily frozen in your tracks by the sight of her face,
which is horribly scarred, possibly from some accident. While you stare at her,
the umbrella flies loose and lodges in the branches of a tree. The old woman
cries a little, kicks the tree, and shuffles away.
 
All of that happens automatically; there is nothing you can do to stop it from
happening. Just as well, since you will be needing that umbrella later on. So,
throw the soccer ball at the umbrella. Once you have the umbrella (or brolly,
as they sometimes say in London), head along West past the Round Pond, admiring
the toy boats, and stop a moment at the Broad Walk, where another old woman is
selling bags of crumbs for the pigeons.
 
Buy a bag, but don't do anything with it just yet. Make sure you take the bag
before you leave (you can take the coin, too, although I never did find a use
for it). Go North to the Black Lion Gate, where you find an unattended
perambulator (which, fortunately, you can abbreviate to PRAM in the game). Open
it (there is nothing inside, but you want the Pram for itself), then push it SE
to the Round Pond again (the boy blowing soap bubbles at Inverness Terrace is
not important in this area, but you'll meet him again later).
 
This time, you see a graceful paper crane swimming in the Pond. Get that and
open it up. Aha, a message! Long Water, 4 o'clock. Put the paper in your pocket
while you think on that a moment. Long Water is off to the east, but there
seems no way of reaching it. The only route is across the grass at the
Lancaster Walk, but the sign there says: "Do not walk on the grass", and they
mean it (try it, if you haven't already).
 
However, you've noticed that bicycles are able to roll over the grass; now, if
you could stuff yourself in the Pram, and open the umbrella, the wind might
blow you over to Long Water. Unfortunately, the wind is coming from the east,
so that idea seems out. Or does it? Push the Pram over to Lancaster Walk, get
inside, and now put your hand in the bag of crumbs.
 
A ruby slips out! Wow, how about that? But before you can do anything about it,
a bird that looks suspiciously like a road runner picks it up and darts away to
the east. And at that moment, the winds die down briefly, then start up again
from the west (finding the ruby triggers the wind change). Now, open your
umbrella, and you're off to Long Water.
 
CRASH! Oooops, you went a little too quickly there, eh? No matter, you aren't
hurt at all. Pick up anything you may have dropped, then just hang around for a
little while. It won't be long before you notice a missile overhead, falling
with excruciating slowness. However, don't stand there gawking; as the missile
approaches, you notice a door has appeared, hovering in the air just above the
water's surface. That's what you've been waiting for, so move quickly East and
through the door (no, you can't take the Pram with you, and you don't need it
any more, anyway). The real game is about to begin.....
 
Trinity is copyrighted 1986 by Infocom Inc.
 
This walkthru is copyrighted 1986 by Scorpia, all rights reserved.


                     TRINITY
                     Part II
 
 
You find youself stepping out of a door set in the stem of an enormous
toadstool that is growing in a pleasant Meadow. Even as you turn to look, the
door fades away into the mushroom. Hmmmm. But there is no time to worry about
that, you have much to do here.
 
From the Meadow, walk North to the Summit. After admiring the view, tramp NE
the South Bog. Not a very pretty place, especially with that decaying log
at your feet. Try getting the log, and it falls to pieces, leaving behind only
a single splinter, edged with phosphoresence. This is your first light source.
Pick up the splinter, then go SE past the Trellis, SE again to the Arbor
Vitaes, and West to the Arboretum.
 
Here you find a bizarre glass sculpture, with Felix Klein 1849-1925 on the
base. The bottle itself is not important in the game, but the inscription is.
Now, go South up the South Arbor, then up again to the top. A pretty dizzy
climb, eh? But look what's here: a silver axe. Take that, then go NORTH and
down to the Arboretum again.
 
Ummm...something is not right here. The inscription on the base of the
sculpture is now backwards!!! In fact, if you start wandering around the area,
you'll find that everything is now reversed! But, don't panic! You have just
solved a tidy little problem. Drop the gnomon, then go back up the pergola.
The trick here is to make a complete circuit, in either direction. You can go
North and come back South, or go South and come back North. Either route will
set things to rights again. Just make sure you drop the gnomon before you make
the second trip.
 
Ok, pick up the gnomon and make your way back to the Trellis. From there, go
due North to the Stair Bottom (this, by the way, is a good place to leave
various items that you don't immediately need). Climb the stairs all the way to
the top (brr, it's a bit chilly up here) where you find another sundial,
although it's a bit larger than the other one was. No matter, screw the gnomon
into the face of the dial....and a lever pops up from the platform (a terrible
pun pops up, too).
 
This lever is quite important, and controls the dial. Examine the dial, and
you will see the shadow of the gnomon advancing along towards the symbols.
When you push the lever, the shadow will stop; when you pull the lever, the
shadow begins moving again. Any time the shadow is directly on a symbol, the
door in a particular toadstoll will open. Therefore, you must wait for the
shadow to reach a symbol, then push the lever.
 
Symbol #1 represents the door you arrived through, and will not be used again.
Symbol #2 is the toadstool at the Waterfall; symbol #3 is the one in the
Ossuary; symbol #4 is the Mesa; symbol #5 is the cottage Garden; symbol #6 is
the Moor, and symbol #7 is across the River Styx.
 
It is not possible to go through the doors in order to complete the game; you
will need objects from different places in order to finish. So, as usual, you
are going to have to do a bit of waiting here (this is an Infocom game, so you
knew this sort of thing would happen sooner or later).
 
Anyway, now that you have the sundial set up, take out some time to map the
area thoroughly. There is no funny business here; the mapping is all very
straighforward, and it's important that you know where everything is and how
to get somewhere quickly. Along the way, you'll find an oak tree at the Chasm's
Brink; chop that down with the axe (but hang on to the axe).
 
You will also find a cottage; by all means, go inside. Listen to the Magpie
(take the cage) while you read the Book of Hours (can you guess what it
represents?), and examine the map on the wall (it's your own map, hehehe). Poke
around in the Garden back of the cottage, too, where you'll find some garlic in
the trash pile. However, you might want to stay out of the Barrow for awhile.
And I'd recommend you not try to disturb the boy blowing bubbles at the
Promontory; he's quite a bit larger than when you last saw him. But keep him in
mind; later he will be very important to you.
 
While you're becoming familiar with the area, you might want to do a few other
things, too, such as getting the metal from the crater. Visit the Ice Cavern
West of the Waterfall, bringing the axe with you. Throw the axe at the icicles
on the ceiling, and one of them will break off. Get that and go straight East
to the Stair Bottom.
 
The icicle is beginning to melt, and if you go much further, it won't last
until you reach the metal. However, it's pretty cool up at the top, so climb
up to the dial, where the icicle freezes up again. Now you can go down again
and you'll have just enough time to get into the crater and put the icicle
on the metal. Once it's cool, just pick it up with your bare hands.
 
On your way back, stop off Under The Cliff, where the bee hive is located.
Honey is usually found in some places, so put your hand in the hole. OUCH!
Maybe that wasn't such a great idea after all; now you have a giant bee after
you. But he's really no problem: nip along SW to the Stair Bottom, then NW to
the North Bog and the giant Venus Fly Trap. The bee comes buzzing after you,
but is sidetracked and eaten by the Plant. Whew! Now you can go back to the
hive (drop off the metal at the stairs on the way) and get the honey.
 
Ok, now that you've done your mapping, it's time to get busy. Back at the
sundial, wait until the shadow is on the third symbol. Push the lever, then
head along to the Ossuary (at the Stair Bottom, you can drop off the cage and
the axe, which you won't need for awhile, also the bag of crumbs and the
umbrella).
 
The Ossuary is not a nice place, especially with a Barrow Wight in residence.
However, since you have light with you, he is relatively harmless. Proceed
through the door in the toadstool, which transports you to an underground
tunnel, where a nuclear test is in progress. Get the lamp, and keep going.
Pick up the walkie talkie and turn it on. Sooner or later, a small lizard will
make it's appearance.
 
The skink runs past you to the next room, and you'll find he's a slippery
little devil. But you can fool him! Turn on the lamp and drop it. Then go to
the next room, where the skink is hiding in a crevice. Push your splinter into
the crevice, and wait. The lizard will run out to the previous room...but your
lamp is there, and now the poor thing is confused. It comes rushing back in,
to run wildly around your feet. Pick it up and put it in your pocket (the skink
will not escape, and will remain alive).
 
Now return the way you came (the door is still there) to the Ossuary. Since
you have the lamp, you are safe from the Wight. Search among the bones, and
you'll find a key. This key fits in the hole in the other room. Turning the
key opens a secret passage in the floor to a room below. Go down that into
the Ice Cavern while the Wight stomps about in rage at your escape. Turn off
the lamp, and return to the Stair Bottom.
 
Drop off the walkie-talkie and the lamp here. Then up you go, pull the lever,
and wait for the shadow to touch the fourth symbol, after which you traipse
on over to the Mesa, walk carefully across the tree, and through the open
door.
 
You're in some kind of building. Climb down the ladder, open the box, push the
red button and the switch, and step outside. Ah, the South Pacific! However,
I wouldn't stick around too long, if I were you: the world's first H-Bomb is
going to explode soon. Make a quick circuit of the area; it's pretty small,
eh? And what about that ominous fin that seems to follow you around?
 
On the West Beach, you spy a small islet offshore, with nothing more than a
small palm tree on it. Palm trees are noted for having coconuts, amd coconuts,
as we all know, contain milk (aha!). I'll bet you could swim there...OUCH!
Nasty crabs! In fact, a whole lot of nasty crabs! You'll never get to that
islet now, as they cover the beach, clicking their claws at you.
 
And now, to make your day, a huge mouthful of sharp teeth erupts from the
water. But wait...it's not a shark, it's a dolphin!! Whew! Good thing dolphins
are friendly...and playful...and smart, too. Just point to the coconut that's
floating around, and the dolphin will throw it to you. It's as simple as that.
Then run quickly back to the door and step through it.
 
 
Trinity is copyrighted 1986 by Infocom Inc.
 
This walkthru is copyrighted 1986 by Scorpia, all rights reserved.


                         TRINITY
                         PART III
 
 
All right, we're making some progress here. Drop off the coconut at the Stair
Bottom, get the cage, and release the Magpie (you don't need him anymore). Up
at the top, wait for the shadow to reach the fifth symbol, then hop on down and
over to the Garden and into the toadstool.
 
BRRRRR! It's cold around here, and no wonder: you're in Siberia now (America
isn't the only country that conducts nuclear tests). Climb down the ladder, and
you'll see that the area is over-run with rodents, all dashing madly off across
the tundra. Whatever could they be doing? The only way to find out is to follow
them, so do just that.
 
Eventually you come to a cliff, but the rodents don't stop...they just keep
right on going, over the edge to their doom. Now you know what they are:
lemmings! And you can see that one of them is stuck in a fissure. Grab him
quick and stick him in the cage, then return to the door (freezing to death
isn't pleasant).
 
Ahhh, that's better, nice and warm again. Drop off the cage at the stairs, and
go to the top, where you wait for the shadow to touch the sixth symbol. On your
way to the Moor, remember to pick up the umbrella, and also make sure you have
the note with you (the one that used to be a crane). Step through the door
and...
 
Oh my, you seem to be falling....and falling pretty quickly, too! One move is
all you have, so don't waste it: open that umbrella, fast!! OOOF! A hard
landing, but you seem to be in one piece. Pick up anything you may have
dropped, then take a look around.
 
Children to the north, teachers to the south, a shelter to the east, and a
building to the west. Very small place. Examining the decorations around the
windows, you note they are Origami. Uh oh. You're in Nagasaki, only a few
minutes before the bomb hits.
 
Time is of the essence here, but just hang around awhile until the little girl
shows up. She's about five and very cute. She's also entranced by your umbrella
(guess who she is?). Give her the umbrella, and follow the girl into the
shelter, where you see the spade. Take it.
 
Now your only question is: how do I get back to the door, fourteen hundred feet
overhead? Well, the solution (something of a cop-out, I think) is simple: give
the note to the little girl. She recognizes it immediately as Origami, and
deftly folds it back into a crane before returning it to you.
 
As you watch, you see the crane glowing with magical energies. Step out of the
shelter, and the crane begins to grow...and grow...and grow...until it's large
enough for you to ride, back up to the doorway in the sky.
 
That little episode may have left you with an unpleasant feeling, but things
are going to get worse very shortly. Drop off the spade, climb up to the dial,
and wait until it reaches symbol #2. Go down again, pick up the metal and the
axe and head along to the Promontory where the giant boy is blowing bubbles.
 
Climb into the dish of soapy water, and wait until you're inside a bubble. It
won't hold up very long, so without wasting time, go South, then Southwest, and
into the door, bubble and all.
 
Look, you're in outer space! Fortunately, the bubble immediately freezes around
you, providing protection for your frail body. Now you see two things: a
crescent moon and a satellite. This is the place; take the skink from your
pocket, and kill the poor thing, strangling it with your fingers. There is no
way you can avoid doing this, so if you want to finish the game..well...
 
Once that very unpleasant task is done, the satellite is much closer, and the
metal (which is magnetic) pulls you right up to it and you stick to the side.
Now the satellite is moving back the way you came. Again, there isn't much time
here before you get vaporized, so when you see the door getting closer, break
the bubble with the axe. Whooosh! You're blown right through the door to the
Waterfall.
 
Ok, you have everything now that the Magpie told you about. Get the coconut,
and make your way to the cottage. Drop the coconut, hit it with the axe, get
the coconut, and pour the last of the milk into the cauldron. Drop the axe and
coconut, which you don't need any more, steel yourself, and put your
honey-coated hand into the cauldron.
 
OUCH! But at least the honey is off your hand and in the pot. Now drop in the
skink, and the garlic, then leave and wait outside. When all the excitement
dies down, go back in. Hmmm...not much left of the Book of Hours, but that's
not important. Peek in the cauldron, and at the bottom, you see...an emerald!
Take that, because now it's masquerade time.
 
From the cottage, go to the Cemetary over the Waterfall. Pry the Crypt open
with the spade (remember, it's sturdy enough...and how many of you out there
thought it was for the metal? hehehe). Once the Crypt is open, look inside.
Don't be afraid, it's only your own dead body (hmmm).
 
Grave-robbing time. Take the shroud and the two crazy boots. Untie the bandage
and the corpse's mouth falls open, revealing a silver coin. Get that too (you
can drop the bandage). Examine the boots, and you see that each has a
compartment in it. Put the emerald in the green boot. Aha, it's sprouted wings!
Too bad you don't have something for the red boot, but maybe you'll come across
it later. Put on the red boot and wear the shroud. You can drop the spade.
 
Now, return to the sundial, and wait until the shadow is on the seventh symbol.
Go down, and make sure you have the following with you before you go to the
River: Shroud (worn), boots (worn), silver coin, cage (with lemming), the lamp,
walkie-talkie, bag of crumbs.
 
Ok, you stand on the shore of the River Styx, waiting for the dark oarsman to
arrive, which he will do shortly. This time, with your vacation shorts hidden
by a shroud, he lets you in the boat (you wonder why he doesn't notice the cage
with the live lemming, or the hissing walkie-talkie...). Hand him the silver
coin. In due time, the boat pushes off for the other side, and you are on your
way to your destiny.....
 
Trinity is copyrighted 1986 by Infocom, Inc.
 
This walkthru is copyrighted 1986 by Scorpia, all rights reserved.


                          TRINITY
                          PART IV
 
 
And so you step through the final door. New Mexico, 1945. In a short while, the
first atomic bomb will be detonated, and the world will never be the same
again. You are here to sabotage that explosion, but not for the reasons you may
think. However, there's a long way to go before you can get around to doing
that.
 
Wait until the voices leave. While you wait, examine the paperbook book; inside
is a very important piece of cardboard (you don't have to take it with you;
just note down what's written on it). You might also want to take a look at
that panel, too.
 
Ok, climb down to the bottom of the tower, and there you see...the roadrunner!
He's sitting on a mysterious locked box that you can't open (yet!), and in his
beak, he holds the ruby, which he drops for you to take. Get that, and put it
in the red boot. Now, you can move pretty quickly across the desert. Just as
well, because, as always, time is short.
 
Here you are going to need the map that came with the game. Study it carefully.
From the Tower, zip across the sands to point Able (your faithful roadrunner
will be following you wherever you go..he will be handy in several places).
Don't go too close; what you're interested in here is the abandoned jeep. Get
inside. You can ignore the wallet (it has a picture of a boy inside...guess
who?). Look at the radio dial, and see what number it's set to. This number is
random each time you visit the jeep. Now, tune the walkie-talkie to that same
frequency, so you can hear what's going on.
 
So far, so good. Now it's time to visit Old McDonald's ranch (sorry, no
hamburgers). Check the floor plan on the map. Go to the Assembly Room. OOPS!
Umm, there seems to be a rather vicious rattlesnake here. It would be a
helluva thing if you came this far, only to die of a snakebite, so hop right
into that closet and shut the door.
 
Of course, this is only a temporary measure. You have to come out, sooner or
later, and the rattler will still be there. So, you're going to have to give
him something. That something, alas, is the lemming. Open the cage, and the
lemming will jump out and begin scurrying around on the floor. Open the door,
and it dashes out straight into the fangs of the snake. Poor lemming.
 
After the snake leaves, examine the workbench (you can drop the cage, by the
way). Here you find a screwdriver. Take that, then go to the kitchen, where
you pick up a steak knife. Then it's outside, for a visit to the Reservoir
and the Windmill.
 
At the Reservoir, climb up and drop everything you're holding (no need to
empty your pockets). Climb back down again, and go around to the Windmill.
A creaky ladder leads up, and it doesn't look very safe. However, nothing
ventured, nothing gained, so you go up the ladder. Just as you reach out to
grab the binoculars....CRASH!!!!
 
You fell through into the Reservoir. And what about the binoculars? Well,
they're at the bottom. How to get them? Simple! Climb out, get the lamp, and
jump back in again. Turn on the lamp, and swim down. Aha, there they are! Grab
the binocs (you can abbreviate them like that in the game, too), and return to
the surface. Pick up all your other stuff (you can drop the lamp), and make
tracks for point Baker.
 
There certainly is a lot of activity around this place. Better stay hidden
behind the shed. While you're there, why not take a peek at the shelters with
your binocs? Hmmm...isn't that interesting: looks like you just found the key
to that mysterious locked box by the tower. On the other hand, there certainly
isn't any way for YOU to get that key.
 
Did you know that roadrunners understand English? This one, does, at least.
When your speedy friend shows up, tell him to get the key and voila! he nips
in, grabs it, and nips out again. Pretty speedy, all right!
 
OK, we're approaching the big moment, but you have a little more to do first.
Return to the Tower, and open the box (you can drop the key and padlock after
that). Inside is a lot of electrical equipment, and a breaker. Open the
breaker, then immediately close it again. Listen to the reactions over the
walkie-talkie.
 
Now, you need to get back up the Tower, but with the spotlight on, you're
certain to be seen. Something will have to be done about this, so head
along to point Pittsburg.
 
Good doggie, nice doggie...be very quiet, and DON'T wake the German Shepherd
that's sleeping outside the bunker. Instead, drop the bag of crumbs, and wait
for the roadrunner to arrive. As soon as he does, run like the wind for the
Tower. Waste no time here at all. Get to the Tower, and climb right up to the
top and get inside while your friendly roadrunner is raising hell back at the
bunker.
 
Whew! Just made it. Ok, turn on the light (there's a chain switch you can pull)
and unscrew the panel with the screwdriver. Look inside, and you'll see four
wires. Only one is the right one to cut. But, don't be in a rush, you have a
little time now, so wait. Wait until you hear over the walkie-talkie that the
auto-sequencer is running. At that point, cut the RED wire!
 
The countdown goes on...5..4..3..2..1...ZILCH. No explosion. And even as you
wonder what it is you've just done, everything begins to melt away, and that
strange voice you heard back at Long Water gives you an explanation, of sorts.
So you've saved the entire state of New Mexico from being smeared off the map
(the bomb was just a BIT stronger than expected). Cold comfort, when you begin
to realize how nature is going to fix up this paradox. All prams lead to the
Kensington Gardens, indeed......
 
Trinity is copyrighted 1986 by Infocom, Inc.
 
This walkthru is copyrighted 1986 by Scorpia, all rights reserved.
